Python Bird Sound Game
By Sheila Strahan

INTRODUCTION: This game is a guessing game where a user hears a bird sound and tries to guess which bird it is. The game presents the user with a sound and three possible choices to select from. Users earn 10 points for each correct answer. The program tracks their total score and can present a scoreboard with names and points sorted from highest to lowest. The program allows users to register with a name and password, and logout so that another user can login. It tracks their score throughout as long as the game is not exited.
DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION: I changed course multiple times over the last few weeks, so the design and implementation was not linear. There were several key parts:
The actual questions being generated and presented to the user. I started with a list of dictionaries, each dictionary containing all the info on a particular bird (including the location of the sound file). I used 3 lists to generate and track question answers: 1. a list of which bird sounds had not been played yet - each time a bird sound played, it was removed from that list. (Side note on this: I originally tried to have a dictionary key “already_played” that was false until I changed it to true, but I ran into so many problems figuring out how to filter for that in the list of dictionaries, that I switched to just maintaining a separate list.), 2. A list of those birds in that one round that were not being played (so that the program could randomly choose other bird names to populate the multiple choice choices). Only the bird currently being played was removed from that list, and it was restored on the next round. 3. A list of the three current choices for the question so they could be randomized and printed. Another side note: I designed this portion using classes, thinking that questions as objects made sense, but I’m not sure it does with the way I implemented it. Maybe in the future I’ll revisit that and make different subclasses where questions can be multiple choice or not, give hints or not, etc., but the way it is set up now seems a little unnecessary.
The players: I created a player class and each time a user registers, it instantiates a player and saves their object in a list, which is then referenced for tracking scores, future, logins, etc. I used the range method to perform a linear search during both the registration and login methods in order to determine whether a user was already registered or not. In the case of registration, if there was no user yet registered, it allows the user to enter a password, then the player object is returned to the game for play. In the case of login, if the user was already registered, it checked the stored password against the one entered, and, if correct, returned the user object to the game for further play.
The scoreboard: I created a list of dictionaries for the scores and names and used the python sort method to sort and display the names and scores. For the practice, I also designed a quicksort on the player object list. It worked, but I was unsure why it was working since I was calling the quicksort on the objects list AFTER I had already defined the dictionary that was using that same list, but the print statements referenced the dictionary, not the sorted objects list. It was very confusing to me. After several days, I realized that I never called it and was getting the results I wanted because the dictionary was doing the work. The quicksort wasn’t working at all. After several more days, I figured out how to perform the quicksort on a list of objects (harder than it seems) AND how to reverse the sort so the highest scores came first (easier than it seems at first - just takes changing a single character). I left the dictionary code in, but commented it out since the most recent thing I was working on was the quicksort.
I added a learning mode where instead of questions, it generated information about the bird while playing the sound. I used a range loop to print facts from a list in the bird’s object, nested inside an if statement checking if the user wanted to learn about another bird, next inside a while statement tracking how many birds were left to learn about. I used random to select which bird, and then removed that bird from the list the while loop was tracking.
Details: making sure that inputs were within acceptable limits, giving users exit options, putting guidelines on username and password entries, etc. Just for fun: bird emojis at the start of the game and redlined error messages.
This project has been and still is a huge lesson in choosing the best approach to things: I have spent a lot of time considering the advantages of shorter code vs. clearer steps, more efficient code vs. easier-to-understand code, procedural vs. object-oriented programming, etc.  
I discussed most of the best features and shortcomings of the project, as well as some choices I might have made differently above and will highlight those.  
A couple other things:

1.  I wanted to use an API from xeno-canto.org to have access to a huge library of birdsounds, but was unable to figure out with a. How to play the sounds directly online or b. How to download and then play the sounds during the program. So, it is limited to pre-programmed sounds and info.
2.  I am super annoyed by the fact that the program allows input during the playing of the sound, but then doesn’t do anything with it until the sound is over. I can see how this might lead to frustrated users, but have no idea how to fix it.
    Future features:
    I can see expanding upon this to offer more levels of play: i.e. a level where a user has to type in the correct bird instead of having a list to choose from, a level where they can get hints, etc.
    I can see adding a use of the API mentioned above in the learning mode where a user can connect to the API to read more about the bird.
    Oh, the places this could go . . .
